[MUSIC]
The VLookup is one of
the core functions in Excel,
and one of the most frequently used.
The VLookup allows you to look up
a value in a data table and
pull a specific attribute corresponding
to that value, to a new table.
For example, let's say I have
a data set with a name on it.
Now imagine I also have a data set
that started with the same name,
followed by a series of
attributes related to that name.
VLookup is going to allow me to lookup
the name in the second data set,
and then select which attribute or
attributes I'm interested in
pulling into my new data set.
VLookup's work best in
structured data sets,
and your lookups range always needs to
be all the way to the left of the table.
The V in VLookups stands for vertical.
There's a separate formula called HLookup
which stand for horizontal lookup.
Which allows you to lookup
the data horizontally.
Where the vertical lookup, the VLookup,
looks vertically across the selection.
Generally, we see VLookups
more frequently than HLookups
due to the way data is
normally structured.
However, HLookup is a good
tool to have in your pocket.
The syntax for
VLookup is fairly straightforward.
It starts with a lookup value.
Essentially, what am I trying to lookup?
The next input is the table array.
Where am I trying to
lookup this information?
And next, is the column index number.
How many columns from the matching
value do I want to look over and
bring into my data set?
The last piece in brackets is an optional
field called the range_lookup.
This is asking whether I want
an exact match, or a partial match.
Most of the time we want an exact match,
but it is a leading
practice to specify true or
false, something we need to be
sensitive to as we go forward.
Some other things to keep in mind are the
VLookup is always going to take the first
match that it finds in the data set.
It stops looking once it
finds a corresponding match,
even though there may be multiple
matches further down.
Second, if Excel cannot find a match,
it is going to come back with an error.
We will learn how to deal
with both of these problems
as we become more familiar and
we practice using the VLookup.
So, let's now shift actually
playing with VLookup within Excel.
Why don't we start with
basic VLookup problem?
First, let's get familiar
with our data set,
and the question we
are being asked to answer.
Over here we have a very basic table,
starting with distributor ID,
the distributor country,
and the distributor name.
Down here we have another table
with just the distributor ID.
The first question asks us to
match the distributor's name
to the distributor's ID.
This is a perfect use case for a VLookup.
So why don't we get started.
To begin we are going to move into
the cell where we want to work.
And as discussed prior,
we are going to start writing our
formula plucketing the equals key.
Now we are going to start typing the name
of the formula which is VLookup.
I am going to hit the tab key which
will fill out the rest of the formula.
You will notice that within the VLookup
formula, the lookup value is folded.
This allows me to know which section
of the formula I'm working in.
The view with the value I
want is the distributor ID,
since I'm trying to pull in corresponding
information with the distributor ID
being the common key.
I'm going to select 23265,
the first distributor ID, and hit comma.
Next, I'm going to select where I want
Excel to look up this information.
I'm going to select my entire data table
from the top left to the bottom right.
As discussed in the basic
functionality section
we're going to want to lock these cells so
it's easier to copy the formula.
If we are copying and
pasting this formula, we'd like to
keep the data table consistent,
so I'm going to hit the F4 key to get the
$ sign next to both the row reference and
the column reference.
Next, I'm going to click comma, and
it's asking me to insert what column
index number I am looking for.
In other words,
how many columns over is the data
that I want to pull into my table?
Starting with the data
that was being lookedup.
The distributor ID will be in column one.
The country in column two and
the name in column three.
For this example I want column three
as that is where the name resides.
Now, I'm going to hit comma to move
to the next piece of this syntax,
which is range_lookup.
The range_lookup is an approximate
match or an exact match.
The best practice is
generally doing an exact match.
So I'm going to type false and
then close the formula.
You will see that the answer is
Uriel Benton after I hit Enter.
Note, this matches a name for
the distributor ID in B21.
Since we properly locked and
anchored the formula, we can copy and
paste down the formula to get
the matching distributor to 23315.
Let's look to see what happens
when we copy and paste.
We will see Anika Tillman appeared for
distributor ID 23315.
[MUSIC]